## Studying Tech Adoption with “Text-As-Data”: Opportunities, Pitfalls, and Complementarities in the Case of Transportation
### Author: Shih-Hung Chiu, Tianyu Han, Alison Post, Ishana Ratan, and Kenichi Soga
### Journal: Environment and Planning B: Urban Analytics and City Science

The rapid digitization and publication of local government records presents researchers with an unprecedented chance to study governance processes. In tandem, advances in computer science and statistics–alongside significant increases in computational power–have led to the development of “text as data” methods and their application to social science and policy research. This paper evaluates the potential utility of digitized public meeting minutes and meeting recordings for studying decision-making about technology adoption by local public agencies, using survey data on the same topic as a benchmark. Focusing on transit agencies in California, we evaluate each data source with respect to overall data availability, bias in data availability, and the types of information about technology adoption contained. We find that meeting minutes and video recordings are available for more than twice as many agencies than for a state transit agency-sponsored survey, and that the availability of digitized records is not skewed towards larger agencies, as is the case for survey data. Meanwhile, with respect to the type of information available about technology adoption in these three data sources, we find important complementarities.  

* ``agencies analysis.ipynb`` is the main notebook for this study. The notebook reproduce the anaylsis and figures. 
* ``Survey Weights.R`` is the notebook for estimating the weights for the survey results.
