Chair hendricks.. good evening, eeryone. The regular board of directors of the santa clara valley transportation authority is called to order.Roll call, please.5:33 PMClerk: carrasco, chavez, davis, constantine, liccardo, montano, paul, peralez, rennie, here, simitian, here.Thank you. Jones. Present. Chair hendricks?Attending.We have a quorum. thank you.Thank you. we are going to orders of the day, before we move on, staff is asking to move the item southbound off ramp to the consent agenda and also removing closed session item 9. 1a, existing litigation and 91a, conference from labor negotiations from the agenda. Are there any other items from staff? Are there any other changes from my colleagues?5:34 PMI just joined in, chairperson. This is montano.Okay. we will note montano here. If there are no changes, May I have a motion?Motion y john, second by montano. Are there any questions? I don't think we take public comment on this, is that correct?5:35 PMYes, chair.Let's take the vote.Clerk: [roll call] all right. Motion passed.Thank you. our next item is awards and commendations. I think this is a really great part of the meeting agenda that we have which is to highlight and recognize the people that are receiving an award, but just to recognize he employees that are doing the hard day-to-day work. I want to say thanks to all theemployees and this is a great part of the agenda. I'm going to read these. We have - recognize janine adan, office and timekeeping technician, north operations; in the past few years, janine has been doing a great job and without her expertise, her job would have been difficult to task. I would like to say, janine, thank you for the excellent work. This is the time where we all get to clap. Everybody should hang around because we are going to take a picture at the end of these, is that correct?5:37 PMYes, chair.Thank you, janine.You're welcome.Next we have paola viramontes, coach operator, north transportation; daniel sanchez, 14 year in her career and shows she loves her job and goes above and beyond her duty and receives excellent feedback from those around us. Paula is with us. Thank you for your excellent work. [ applause ] we should get some sound to show we appreciate everyone here. Thank you. Next we have quarter of 2021; and john cuen, vehicle parts supervisor, light rail parts department, as supervisor of the fourth (4th) quarter of2021. He has worked throughout the pandemic and is available to employees and his positive attitude has had a beneficial impact on the team and john is on the teleconference with us. Congratulations, john, thank you for your leadership. [ applause ] the other honoree unable to join us is john sanchez. Themaintenance employee of the 4th quarter. He has proven himself to support his coworkers and works proactively to resolve problems and is practical and solve solutions and considered a great asset. Would everybody go ahead and turn your cameras on to take a picture. While we are doing that, I would like to say congratulations to all the employees of the 4th quarter. This is a great recognition of what goes on and I would like to thank all the employees that are out there day in and day out and i'm allowed to say this, busting your butt everyday for roviding a service to our customers. Thank you very much. Elaine, I will ass it onto you.5:39 PMYes. a reminder for everyone to turn on your videos and michelle is going to count once she is ready to take the screen shot.5:40 PMThanks, elaine. I will be taking two pictures. Let's try again.All right. very good.Thanks to everyone for taking the picture and thanks to everyone, our employees of the 4th quarter. Thank you very much. Next, I will move to public comment. Reserved for persons desiring to address the board ofdirectors on any item within the board's jurisdiction but not on the agenda. Speakers are limited to 1 minute. The amount -- those with customer service, the contact is on our sreen.5:41 PMBefore I go to the speakers, I want to note for the record that we did receive two written public comments from roland lebron and one from blair beak man. Roland, you May begin speaking when you are ready.Public speaker: Mr. Chair, i'm here giving you two violations of government code and two is public comment on consent and the second one public comment on commendation. Yesterday at the board meeting, the mayor reported that one of his constituents was saved from human trafficking by a vta driver.I haven't seen any commendation on that. I don't know what happened. What I want to talk about duringpublic comment is that complete expense report is over due of the management, the governance, who is running this and the lack of skills of people in charge of the project. Thank you.5:43 PMThank you. I shared with the mayor of belmont and when we receive that information, I will be stating that. Thank you for letting it out of the bag.Next speaker, please. public speaker: blair beingman. Hi, these are ideas if considered well, we can havepeace and not war or harm. Please know how thinking can be of help for this local data of collection and from that note that every data f collection is from use of a good year and it's worked well in these subjects.In this continual new era of covid-19 and this vaccine process we can begin to be a more caring community.5:44 PMNext speaker, please. public speaker: hello, this is anne rose from local 265 speaking on issue of retroactive hazard pay. I would like the board to continue considering and take some action on providing retroactive hazard pay for the atu especially after we just learned that the rest of the county employees who have been on the rontline have or will be receiving retroactive hazard pay. Thank you for your time.5:45 PMThank you.Chair hendricks.. i'm not seeing any others for public comment. We do not have public hearings, item 4.We will go to our committee reports. First is our 5 yte --. 1.5. 1. Citizens advisory committee (cac) chairperson's report. (verbal report) (swaminathan) good evening, the advisory committee met on as a whole. We encourage vta to move towards using greener sources of energy. Our committee still has several vacancies and I continue to call on the board to spread the word of our vacancies because they termed out when we added term limits. So we are seeking members with experience and members across all the county. I encourage fellow citizens to consider serving cec and thecitizen watch dog committee and we plan to conduct interviews this month. Our regular meeting will be held Wednesday the 14th and hope to have a new member applicant.5:47 PMThank you.I just want to ask if he has a digital flyer that I could put it on our city website for folks that want to join the committee.Chair, this is elaine, if I May address that. I will go ahead and send you the information, board membermontano.Great.Thank you, elaine.Chair hendricks: thanks a lot and thanks for all the work you and your team are doing.Thank you.(pac) chairperson's report. (verbal report) (moore)Thank you, and good evening chair hndricks. Thursday September 9th, the pac following a robust discussion the staff rejected the introduction of this report as several esidents did not support this project.The committee voted to reject the plan in conjunction with a relationship with south communities. We received a presentation on the bus scenarios and received information park public private partnerships and the committee debated on charges and end of line and technologies and balance concern with the need toreduce carbon footprint of fuel sources. And we received the express lane's fiscal year 2021 operations report and we deferred consideration of the transit oriented development program. The next meeting isDecember 14th.5:49 PMThank you. chairpersons' report. (verbal report) is on the online agenda packet. Chairpersons' report.(verbal report) is on the agenda packet. Chairperson's report. (verbal report) thank you, chair. And vta board members. I'm rose herrera, former vta member and now part of the mboc. Thank you for the valuable work. My input tonight is to show you the annual report and findings therein. As a reminder, the ballot required an independent oversight committee to ensure the funds are being expended and to inform the public of its findings. The mboc insures this report and the audit was conducted of the first two years, fiscal year 2019 and 2020. They issued a clean opinion of both and measure b expenditures were only on cost. This is the annual public hearing in july. I'm here to report that mbcoc annual reports were issued September 22nd and copied ere sent to vta board members. A primary importance is that the report came to the committee's conclusion that for both periods, expenditures were spent in accordance with the ballot and it's important to provide this report as an independent to ensure corroboration to voters that the funds are beinged expended according to the ballot and I am very impressed with the program and how seriously they take their responsibilities. They strive to add -- value to the measure b program and this is by the administration on best practices and optimize greater transparency to the program. Lastly I want to mention that members of the public as well as mbcoc members have strongly encouraged zoom conferences where possible to maximize input. This concludes my presentation. I'm available for questions.Thank you for this opportunity.5:52 PMChair hendricks: thanks rose for that report and giving us that independent view on what is going on. We will now take public comments for items on committee reports 5. 1 through 5. 5.Blair, you May begin speaking when you are ready.The reports are not available including the pac meeting of august 2021. And also an important august 19th, cmpp meeting that offers good description and examples of local government to describe the policies and practices with current vta vehicles. To consider how to better build community trust and the vta May26 event, please learn how to take next steps in the fall and open practices take eaningful and positive ideas of community sustainability and good democratic practices for local santa clara county communitiesand local government bureaucracies. Open democracy ideas are really important to yself and really helpful.5:53 PMRoland, you May begin speaking when you are ready. Public speaker: thank you, and really want to echo the comments that were made about the mbcoc, and the way the members are engaged and their background and their knowledge. And quite frankly, they are the two committees who really get to that level. The one thing I want to bring to your attention is the concern of the mbcoc, and I don't know what the board can do about it. Is that they are essentially being asked to put a rubber stamp to the facts andnot being able to provide input upfront before we go ahead with this project and make recommendations to the board accordingly. Thank you.5:54 PMChair hendricks: thank you. that concludes the public speakers. To my colleagues, do you have any comment? i'm not seen any. We will go to the consent agenda which takes us through items 6. 1 and 6. 9.5:55 PMMr. Chair, I apologize. this is member paul. I was having some wifi connection issues in my office. I would like to register my vote formally on the orders of the ay as a yes. Thank you very much. Okay, I think staff grabbed your comments, thank you for letting us know. 6. 1 through 6. 9. Before I check with mycolleagues, I would like to thank the chair for running the meeting without me being able to attend. I appreciate everybody operating without me being here. To my colleagues, is there anyone that wants to pull an item off consent or add to the consent agenda? I'm not seeing anyone raise their hands. Are there oing to be any abstentions or recusals so staff knows? I'm not seeing any hands raised. With that, let's hear from our public comment.5:56 PMYes, I want to note for the record that we id receive public comment from blair being # beakman. Roland, ou May begin. Public speaker: thank you very much. I want to speak on this item and let me tell what youthat item is, there is going to be dumping of the lane from highway 101 onto highway 87 and that is already a parking lot. And the exact same thing is happening in the south. They are bypassing the main line from highway 101 and will eventually dump onto highway 87. It's happening all over santa clarita.Gilroy is a disaster. They are widening, they are using our tax dollars to widen the freeway south of gilroy and there are no plans to add another lane between morgan hill and gilroy. This is a disaster. Thank you.5:58 PMBlair, you May begin speaking when you are ready.Hi, item 6.2 is about cameras and vehicles. We want to have an honesty and without war. We need to how to better more openly explain our societiel and future. The use of medical imaging of the m rna vaccineprocess is now on page one on google search. It's no longer a kept secret. The vta needs to learn the innovation there can be and the thoughtful memorandums and trust more meeting dialogue and policiesabout this difficult subject matter. There are ways about how to open and share ideas of strain and in this new era of covid-19. Thanks a lot.> thank you. i'm not seeing any other hands. I will annoy close the public speaker section. May I have a motion?5:59 PMThat was member constantine and member jimenez. Are there any questions? I'm not seeing any.Roll call, please.6:00 PMClerkClerkClerk: I vote on item 6.2. and item 6. 3 is information only.Yes.Thank you. an eye vote on item 6 and abstention on item 6. 2. Thank you so much.Motion passed unanimously. thank you. Thank you very much. Chair hendricks. . That will take us to our first item on the regular agenda. 7. 1. Action item - authorize the general manager to issue a competitive request for qualifications (rfq) for a master developer for transit-oriented development (tod) on vta property at the vta block in downtown san jose and above the downtown san jose bart station. Ron goldan is going to share with us. Ron, I believe the floor is yours.6:01 PMThank you, Mr. Chair. also joining me on this presentation is vta's department manager and as well as hr associates. As you May recall, at the last board meeting we talked about the design and framework.Tonight we are going to talk about how we do that. I will take you to the considerations and what has led us on the recommendation and timing.Thank you, ron. as ron mentioned this is an action item for the board's consideration to accept the two step competitive process resulting in a request for qualifications and subsequent request for proposal for the vta bart station in downtown san jose. We have a partner with ahr and advisor to advise us on the step two process. Ultimately, we believe this approach will result in the most outcome. The graphic on screen highlights ownership percentages of the block. You can see that vta has the most substantial holdings with an ownership of 70%. Additional owners of the block include swineson and paul. The board riginally approved acquisition of the property which will be the location of the future bart station. The area in orange will be utilized for construction staging in 2028. Beginning the developer process now allows thedeveloper to plan the structure now. The block sets the stage for future guidance and the owning of the block is possible for the the development of the assembly but will adopt for a holistic mixed use of 1. 1 million square feet resulting in higher development yield. With that, I will hand the presentation to hrna to walk us through the next slides.6:04 PMGood evening, board members. we worked to develop the best plan forward for the vta project. No -- in order to develop this plan, we reached transit agencies and other regional developers and we consulted ith other resources and process related to station design and integration, land development, arket positioninggiven the time that the project will come to fruition, and the final development program where there May be flexibility around that and our career from the agency despite the many uncertainties and challengesthat were just mentioned and most of the developers and peer agencies as well as the examples that we looked at pointed towards that. So based on this work, we identified three development potentials shown as option a, b, c. Option a is a aster developer and putting in the structure and land assembly and then invite developers to build the program. This approach gives vta the most control and programs the mostfinancial upside thank you for this opportunity. And lso for all the projects for the technical capacity in-house and finally we need a large upfront financial vechl for the horizontal infrastructure without having the certainty of the development partners in place, and potential land assembly. The second option b is where vta would partner with a master developer, a third party development partner to be responsible for all implementation aspects and rather than seeking a firm financial offer during procurement, vta would instead negotiate a formula based arrangement to allow vta to share both value of sides and development risks with master developer. After the developer is selected, you will have the opportunity to be based onopportunity and ability to change market conditions. While in approach is able to transfer most f the upfront cost of the project for the developer, it will allow vta to collaborate and create a better project andmitigate risk without getting a firm offer and design from the developer when all of these are mitigation.Option b is a more involved project and while this option provides vta with only a little bit more financialcertainty, it is likely that developers will discount the financial offer significantly in order to account for the risk in place. Based on all the considerations and conversations and research, our recommendation is that vta ove ahead with the second approach and indicates that this pproach is best used in situations where it is more difficult to define a specific development program as the project onset, but a project still has huge market potential for long-term value creation, and that's exactly where this particular project is. In order to successfully enter into the partnership with the approach that we identified, we also identified a number of key considerations. First the capacity and the experience of the developer be critical and the process for a narrow set of qualified developers, and then go to rfp stage to make the final collection. Second is toencourage the master plan development of the entire block. Vta owns more than 70% of the block, but value and actual tod integration can be maximized if the entire block is developed and allow the master developer to create the partnership with the land owners during the negotiation period after they come on board. Third, is to ensure there is a design and program requirements to protect vta's interest andpromote integration and can be codified in the development agreement. Four is to maximize the value of the prize and this is by designing the structure that ncentivizes the developer to maximize value for allpartners including the vta. So the first stage of this developer procurement will be a request for qualification, an rfq, in order to create a short list to provide a key of developers. The key criteria will be the track record of implementing similar projects of similar scale, financial health and resources, a solidunderstanding of vta's goals and dramatic approach to bringing aboard adjacent landowners. The subsequent stage is a more detailed proposal where we will focus on specific development team, their vision for the site and their approach to financial partnerships and profit sharing. With that, I will hand it toron.6:10 PMIf the board authorizes the release of the rfq, it is something that we'll be issuing by the 4th quarter of this year, and our plan is the 1st quarter next year is come back to the board with the report and the responses we have seen and the panel recommendations for a short list of developers for next round. At that time, we will also ask the board for authorization to issue the request for proposal. If the board does authorize that time, then our goal by the second quarter of next year is toish the request for proposal and next year after we have received the responses, from that short list and then at that time if the board accepts the report from the developer, then we kickoff that master planning effort and how do you include vta's majority interest to ensure maximum benefit of the result. We will ultimately expect that maybe it will take 18-24 months. That master plan will come back to the board for vta approval and then follow up with pledges 6 # -- implementation. The reason we are starting now, is it will give us time to cite this up itoinclude to 2028. At the same time, the vta and bart's agreement is selected and they can get together and discuss some of the integration and other design coordination issues around the downtown station. In the packet there is information and I want to highlight three for the presentation. One is, this is a different type of project that will cure over a much longer timeframe. Once we get to the point of the masterdeveloper, we should get in touch with what that process is and reviewing the various steps of approval.The second point that came out of discussion, is the importance of insuring when we have the request for policies and workforce opportunities and affordable housing, that we select a group or the vta's goals and policies and plans for tod. Finally, the recommendation made by the committee by acosta's team for the policy for hospital uses. We discussed this at the committee nd staff is taking that as a referral. We've nowbegun thinking about what might a potential modification to vta's olicy look like that could address labor peace. We are working on that item in November and ill bring it back to the board in December ecause we believe it is an important item to address before we complete the rfp process. So that was a very brieftimeline. This concludes my presentation. I'm available for questions.6:14 PMChair hendricks: thank you for that. Thanks a lot. Member peralez, I see your hand up. Did you have questions now or after public comment?After public comment.Okay, cool. let's go to our public comments now then. Elaine, if you can let our speakers in, please.Clerk: roland, you May begin speaking when you are ready.6:15 PMPublic speaker: thank you. I don't know if you can see this picture, but that is what will be happening and that will be what you present on that presentation. Currently i'm planning to be released a complete project first thing Monday morning. What you will find out is that this great round hole is now available for development. Moving forward, vta is going to get out of the entire block. Once I show you the engineering,I will show you how san francisco managed to get away with spending $800 million. I will be appy to share with you what san francisco did as soon as possible. Thank you.6:16 PMChair hendricks.. thank you.Next speaker, please.Clerk: blair, you May begin speaking when you are ready. Public speaker: hi, blair beakman here. Thanks for this item. There was a nice picture of the downtown bart station and its apartment building or officebuildings building around it. A reminder that the very future of bart, it's kind of exclusive and its fares are high at this time. That can change in the future. Be careful with the exclusivity of how you are making theentrance of the bart station. Make it an accessible process for the future. About the issues of timing, youknow, final contracts with people, eminent domain issues, to 2023, good luck with those issues. I tried to mention how you have to prepare for possible upcoming earthquakes, good luck on how we can make this an open process for all of us to understand.6:17 PMNext speaker, please. you May begin speaking when you are ready. Public speaker: thank you, i'm noticing there is a million square feet of mixed use in this proposal and i'm wondering what policies are in place regarding jobs and housing ratio and like this one do not worsen the housing shortage. Thank you.Chair hendricks: thank you. i'm not seeing any other public speakers. I'm going to my colleagues comments. First up is member peralez.Thank you very much, chair. thank you staff for the work that you have pointed that out in regards to the amount of work that went in here. I appreciate the recommendation and I saw also there were some benefits with vta taking the lead. I did not feel that as an agency this was a myriad of expertise for ustaking on such a large project and I think it's better for someone with experience doing that. I appreciate this process with the rfq and finding a located master developer for this looking forward for a very large site and it's not fully under our control. Just a little bit of partnership there as well. Then, lastly, I appreciate and support director constantine for the report for November to enf and remind me, that will come back to the full board after that?6:19 PMThe intent would come to the board for action in december.Thank you very much.Chair hndricks.. hold on just a second. I'm going to see if any other member has questions. Member liccardo?Thank you, chair. just a quick question, given the fact that this is a better project with all the propertiesincluding the project and the development, what is the reaction of the adjacent property owners to the current process. Do they express any concerns?Thank you, member liccardo. we've been talking with property owners over the last several years when we first started planning throughout this process. I think without going into individual names, I think it depends on the individual owners you are talking about. The second largest owner of the block is interested in partnership with the team and also talking about the opportunity. We've also talkedextensively with other developers and I think they are all very interested. If I were to say, a couple thoughts come from that. Every single owner we get to agrees with us nd if we were to go further, they would advance their own property and would result in a better project with more development. Conversely if the parties can't come together, there will be less quality. To be honest, they are interested in working with the developer that vta selects and not so much with vta. That's the key to advancing this discussionand understanding how best to put this together in a way that benefits the owners, benefits the city and really benefits from the downtown station.6:21 PMOkay, ron, I appreciate your trying to be diplomatic here. Can you describe the concerns of the other developer, you have two land developers and one was fine with this direction. Can you talk about the different concerns?One of the discussion that came up and this gets back to the point that I think member peralez was making. We initially had the discussion about why don't we sit down, we, vta and other owners and work on a plan ourselves. We got feedback and it was positive. It's that they were not really interested in trying to do a planning effort with an agency with that process by the virtue of the fact that we had 70% of the process. So the other owners, they are experts in this development and understand how to work withother developers and they have seen that kind of opportunity as opposed to having to work with agency staff. That's just kind of a practical, that's how developers work.6:22 PMRight, I understand that. I appreciate it. When this ends up in the hands of a master developer and thoseconcerns will be addressed is that right?That's right. and we have staff involved in our role in working with the master developer that the boardauthorizes and we will bring back this master plan as it evolves and the board is part of this discussion as well. There will be opportunities for the board to be involved and as we go forward, there will beopportunities for public comments as well.6:23 PMGreat, thanks, ron, I appreciate it. .Chair hendricks.. next is member montano.Thank you, chair. I wanted to ask the question about what does it mean, ron, thank you for thepresentation. What does it mean when you engage other owners, what does that look like?In terms of engaging other owners?Right.The idea i'm trying to explain is the idea of a master plan that everyone agrees to and when you deal with the site, there are certain basic things that you have to sort out. For example, parking is one of them. Even if you have to go to a lower level parking, there is still some parking and if you have the owners collaborate, you will have parking that is better. You are going to have multiple owners on the property and you think about things and how do people get in and out and how does the trash get picked up and those are all pretty significant issues that you have to work through. There are other site improvements and how do you different the cost from different owners. So really what we are trying to do is reak together when you start working on those issues. How it stands out is open questions. This process of trying to figure outthe plan at the comp plan is everyone agrees to improve the property, but at the same time, each owner develops their own property based on the adjustments and moving properly. On the other hand, if theproperty owners look at this and say we refer his to be a joint venture type of situation and between those two examples, there is a lot of variations in terms of how you can approach it. Given the size of the project and the complexity of the project, what we are trying to do is bring the right developer to work with vta toengage the owners and figure out the options to do this in the best possible manner and as we develop that plan, come to the board and be sure that this is engaging our goals and what we want.6:25 PMGood. does that include a bid for business improvement district in the future or is that still not even considered?Well, vta is a member f the downtown association bid for the downtown association and we already pay for the property we own. The question in terms of talking about do we envision and being part of that bid created and the answer is yes. Being that homeowner, you will need to control the oversight services as well.6:26 PMYou entioned use, is there an opportunity for minority businesses to be able to have a storefront there or is that even considered or it's just going to be how the market -- is it just depending on the market?If I understand your question about who is on the ground floor store fronts. This is a great example from these projects, he talks to the developers because of their financing and lenders and they want the big credits, and as well as for the bart station, we want some of that but also where there is enough for local businesses and I think that's how we create diversity and the kinds of opportunities you are talking about and it's not the same place you see everywhere else. That's a goal and challenging goal and will take time for others to realize it and opportunities for everyone in the community.6:27 PMLastly, out of the three options, I do like the staff's recommendation of option 2. I think it gives us some local control. All right. Thank you.Chair hendricks: thank you. next, member chavez.Thank you. the first thing I want to say what one of the speakers said about the housing, jobs and balance in san jose, that is we have more housing than jobs than any other parts of the county. I wanted to besure I raised that. The second is I want to be sure and something I shared in committee is that all of thevta's policies are really robustly presented including the potential for the labor piece initiative so that we are not surprising any partners and I know we do that on the natural, I just want to make sure we walkthrough it with people so that later on its not something folks are saying well, we negotiate this out or that out. I think it's important to not surprise partners and I think you are prepared to do that based on thediscussion previously.6:28 PMYes, we are.Thank you. and if this comes back in december, will it be enough time for an rfq or rfp?The rfq is for the time and that will be time for the rfp and when we come back with the proposal, that will accommodate that.6:29 PMAppreciate it. again, the board hasn't passed this or reviewed it but I would like to make the proposers aware that it is being considered.Absolutely.The last thing is the policy, the current policy for housing that we have, could you review that for the board in terms of our affordability?Sure. this is defined for households at 60% of area median income or less and it has to have affordable households at 50% ami or lower and saying the policy is creating at least 20% low-income and also trying to get into the very low-income ranges. I will add while his is not in the policy, exclusive, staff is stating with respect to housing and ven high rises are even more of a challenge, we will indicate in the rfp is thatwe will require the vta block, vta property to be kept on the property. In other words, when we do residential on the property on the block, it will be mixed income. I say that while we are aware that thepolicy does provide options for those to meet the requirements off site and not necessarily have it in a high rise building. For staff with this policy, we are going to require it for the property for housing built on-site.6:31 PMThank you.Chair hendricks: is that all? Okay, next is supervisor bert.Great. thank you. I think it's important that inclusionary housing is on-site as part of the project to really have a balance of income workers and residents being able to afford these projects. So I have two related questions. One is it a part of our policy or respective rfq that the housing developers would allow the city or county to buy in additional affordable housing units beyond the mandated inclusionary ones, and the second half of my question is in addition to our low-income component, how do we manage to get moderate income housing given the market rate users are most certainly going to be for higher income residents?6:32 PMThose are two great questions. With respect to your first question for the buy in idea. We have a minimum but we seek to get higher than that minimum. As for other pojects, in our other projects today, we have been able to get to 24, 25% in that range. The key of doing it is not just kind of, you need to assemble all the funding sources, city sources, county sources, all of the sources have to come together. I think thosenegotiations about the funding sources and our goals gives us an opportunity to increase the amount of affordable housing. Certainly, we try to get the highest amount that is practical and the constraint being that we have a mix of national weather service but the buy it has to be feasible for the developers, that's the trade off. The other question you are asking about is the missing middle and a great question andmuch more challenging question to be honest with you. The reason is that when you look at a lot of the low-income and extremely low-income housing, there are opportunities for that, once you get above that,it's not available. When you get into that position down the road and the trade off for the middle income and low-income.6:33 PMOn that missing middle, what a number of our cities are now starting to do is to look at ian inclusionary housing in the formula x percent being low-income and they might have to have two units per everymiddle income that they used instead of a low-income. So, it might be that say it's 15% low-income and then an additional 10% middle income as opposed to 20% low-income. Especially if we might have other funding sources to boost the low-income as the inclusionary. I will leave that as a concept and looking forward to how you pursue these things.6:35 PMChair hendricks.. okay, i'm not seeing any new hands raised. I think we are on the right track. I will just mention, the challenge and problem that we have is everybody has housing segment that we want more.You've got people that might say, it's good to have more of the middle income and some more of the lower.I think staff has a challenging problem with dealing with all of those parameters and how to get the 3 low-income housing as much as possible for the site and other sites sites. Member montano, did you haveanother question?No.Thanks. I see no other comments or questions. Member peralez, did you want to make the motion?6:36 PMYes, I will make the motion to approve staff's recommendation.Second.Who made the second? jimenez. Are there any other comments or questions people have efore we vote?With that, staff, could you please vote us.Clerk:6:37 PMRoll ca[roll call] passing unanimously, thank you.7.2 is part of the consent agenda. We are moving on to 7. 3.7. 3. Information item - receive silicon valley rapid transit (svrt) program update. (verbal report) (salpeas)takis, please provide a report.Thank you, Mr. Chair. can we go to the first page, please. As you recall, we started I believe after the fourth of july. We started with a we call the design review committee. A committee which is composed bycity staff, executives, of course us, bart and all the interest groups and so on. I understand it, we have already collected 2500 comments. We still have three weeks to go. By the end of october, we should see that. And these comments will be given to the architects and engineers to put down the design of this infrastructure. I will remind the board that this is a federal project and the approval of the federal projectdoes not allow us to do any tod but allow us to not preclude tod development. You got a great presentation from roland and staff. You know that we have been working with bart to finish the design idea and given a document which will be given out to the contractors in advance of the contractor work. I'm very happy to tell you that two of the major ocuments are 100% designed, finished, signed and sealed. The station design, that is the design. Real estate, we are progressing as we are planned. We are buying out properties every week. And we are making very good procession -- progress. The third party agreements are in permitting process and once we obtain the permits and so on. September 21st, fta notified us that our project has been selected and they intend to issue a letter of intent within 30 days to allow for the signs of the congress to review the letter of intent and authorization to approve the funding agreement with us. Fta told us that a commitment t obligate up to 25% and will allow the terms and conditions for the project. September 21st, when they announced that we have been selected, a three ward facility includes the agreement, to continue without engineering design, all the construction activities, the utilities andeverything else we need to do. That is an expression where fta is with our project. I'm assuming we are going to get a letter from the government in a few days or so. We are going to have two years to get theconstruction bids and sit down with vta and finalize the budget for the funding agreement. The two minutes updates of the contract progress, yesterday contract no. 2 went out and it's an active agreement.Right now we have two major contracts in acting procurement. We have our systems from end to nd contract and the tunnel program. I put a picture of the tunnel to get to the size. We have to put eight people assuming they are six feet tall. They are progressing in the santa clara station as planned.September 12th, we put out the qualifications. The station as contract is the last to go out and we are planning to bring you before you for the award for the plan in the summer of 2023. This is the opponent ofprogression. --6:43 PMAs you know we have been going for the tunnel contract. The contractors have an elaborate resource that we have and they recommended we should add six months to the project duration and the rfp stated 72months long and the contractors have to do it in six more months. That's the only update to our schedule.If we get more updates, you will be the first to know. That's my presentation. Any questions?Chair hndricks.. takis, thank you very much and thank you for concisely sharing with us what again is 100 if not thousands of personnel hours that is going on for things. Before I go to my colleagues for questions, let's go to the public. So if we can have our public speakers come in.6:44 PMRoland, you May begin speaking when you are ready. Public speaker: first of all let's set the record straight. That is a picture of seattle and it is 56 feet and not 48. The tunnel is going to be very short, one 1/2 mile long. I wish they would not lumber all the comments together because my presentation starts on page 28. Station elements are not part of the process, a layout and configuration of station components.All station access. That's basically what you are dealing with. Monday morning, you are going back to the houses that the downtown association asked for and they are going to be on both sides of the street, andsupervisor chavez, one right outside your huse. Thank you.6:45 PMChair hendricks: thank you. i'm not seeing anymore comments. I will now go to member comments.Member liccardo.Thank you. takis, thank you for presentation. I'm assuming we are going to allow for tod above the station.Is that right?6:46 PMYes, Mr. Mayor, we call it the construction option for the base contract for the downtown station to allow for up to nine floors, and we are finishing up on diridon station. As you know the footprint is a little bit smaller and right now the engineering is showing six floors. We haven't finished it yet. As soon as we finish ourengineering, we should have a discussion. But the answer to your question is yes.Okay, so. the process might be, tell me if i'm way off on this. We have had an alternative document for the tod and perhaps we can go to the adjacent property owner or other developer who wants to build that tod above the station, and if they are willing to fill that gap, we can negotiate for hem to build above the tod station, is that right?6:47 PMThat's correct. the project won't build anything, as you well know by law.Yes, I understand. I wanted to be sure I understand the next steps because certainly as a city, we would be very eager to see tod development there as you know, and I want to have a good sense as soon as that winning bid comes in to understand what that cost is to begin to understand those local developers as there will be 6 million feet and opportunities to have around that airspace.Yes.Thank you. are there any other questions from my colleagues?6:48 PMI want to say frwhat we heard from the speaker, that is from a miami tunnel, not what we consider big bertha. Example to show the size, that's all.Okay, hank you. next I have member montano.Thank you, chair. yes, I was looking at that and it was like lake merit in oakland. Is that similar to that? thank you.Are you talking about the tunnel?The diameter.6:49 PMI don't think so. I didn't do that work at that time. But I think bart used the smaller tunnels. And two passes, we are only doing two passes.Thank you. very impressive.Chair hendricks: I know one had to do with systems integration and testing. Where are the documents for the systems and integration testing get done, are they in those four documents or does that get done later in the process?No, Mr. Chair, you May recall when we set up the contracting plan for phase 2, we were very well aware of what we just discussed. The phase 2 has a separate systems contract. Contract no. 1, c p 1 fromyesterday, it's all the systems. If you look at the contract and the framework, has the responsibility to install every inch of the cable, integrated, work with bart.6:50 PMOkay, clearly I didn't remember maybe we can talk off line and discuss some thoughts with that. I will just say, by the time the tunnel boring starts, I will be off the board, but I do expect to be invited back at the face of the tunnel bore. Does staff have anything else? Since there are no other comments, this is an information only item. So i'm going to move on to the next part of our agenda. Theodorea, did you have anything else to share?6:51 PMYes, I have written public comments that I will include in the report.Thank you.Next item is general manager's report. We will take public comment at the end of the general manager's report.Thank you. first I want to talk about the de la cruz road and that has been an area with a lot of construction in san jose and santa clara. The project is funding by 2016 measure b designed to relievecongestion and traffic and safety for all modes of travel and facilities to improve in that network. This project was developed by vta in collaboration with partners with san jose, san jose airport, faa, santa clara and valley water and cal trans. The estimated completion of this project is spring to 25. I know lots of folks are looking forward to a sweeter commute through that area. The next item is the transit service update.Our program brings us some major service changes to the transit system. The fourth bus class shown tothe streets after graduating on the 8. The operator trainees will be scheduled to start October 8th. We recruit women to these jobs at vta. This is coming back during the pandemic October 11th. Restoration offull weekday, daytime service levels will be complete by them. Meanwhile, we'll be back to the service levels we offer before the pandemic. The final phase of the service restoration for February when full evening and weekend service levels will be complete. My next item is the 568 ribbon cutting event which you are all invited to which is among the service changes taking effect monday, the new 568 route fromdiridon station to downtown san jose which is part of the our effort to improve service n the county area.This is take the 168 rail every 30 minutes from monorail to gilroy to morgan hill to san jose. From 5:30 a.M. To 7:00 p. M. Which is much more frequent from the morning and afternoon with the existing express 168. It will be quicker 3 ride than the regular 68 route from south county and will be better able to provide service for the san jose students. We plan a ribbon cutting at the gilroy transit center next Thursday October 14th. Then I also have some sort of late breaking news I would like to share with everyone. On the 5:00 news on nbc bay area tonight featured a story about one of our bus drivers who has been a photographic artist and his work is in our service from since august. We have a clip that you will enjoy seeing and we'll share that now.6:55 PMNow to a story of a vta bus driver with a very hidden talent.Danny quintana at vta and driving a bus for nine years. It's what he is doing when he is not in the drivers seat that made us want to meet him. If you ever find yourself hopping on a vta bus, route 522 in particular and discover danny quintana behind the wheel, here are a few things to know about danny. First, is that he loves driving that bus.6:56 PMAbsolutely zero stress while i'm driving that bus. Zero. So it's like a vacation. When i'm driving the bus, it's like a vacation.Danny says his bus driving dreams go way back to his childhood.Six years old.When he was growing up poor in san francisco, the bus was his escape.Wait is a way to get away and talking to the bus driver who was always nice. You know, you spend hours with him.The second thing about danny is that bus driving isn't the only thing he loves, and apparently not the only thing he's good at. Just checkout vta's customer service in downtown san jose these days, that art on the wall, that's danny's.6:57 PMI look at the wall and the photo and I look and think did I take that photo.Danny says he's always loved taking pictures but only got serious about street photography as an art form a few years ago under his artist name danny boy 415. Danny is getting more and more recognition for and sales of his work.It took a life of its own. my friends are like, dude, did you know? I didn't know. It took a life of its own.The final thing to know about danny is that you will find a lot of buses in his artwork. And he loves to combine the things he loves and is doing it to great success.6:58 PMIt's my life. you know, I grew up on a bus, riding around on a bus, I drive for the bus, why not? They are pretty vehicles.I will take his word for it. he certainly seems to think so. As far as his dreams in the art world, he says he would love to have an exhibit in new york city one day.He certainly has a talent for it. Thanks.I just want to share that information with you. He got highlighted by nbc bay area as bay area proud and actually we are very honored that he is one of our vta operators here. So I just wanted to share that clip.You May actually see it later on this evening if they show it again. So i'm very proud of his work. He should be very proud of it. I'm going to move on to item 8. 1a. Which is the update on the s. B. 129 joint labor management committee. Before I do that, I want to announce that I have appointed brandy, as vta chief of staff to the general manager. Many of you brandy, she held several key oles and led many projects at vta.And corporate communications professional with 23 years of public transportation experience. I'm sure she doesn't look like that. Brandy will be focused on carrying out strategic enterprise and collective vision to change the culture and climate of our organization. She's also leading the labor joint management committee and will provide an update on that effort tonight. I want to thank her for joining my staff andteam. She's going to be a huge asset in had epping t# -- helping leading this agency forward and I really appreciate my staff working with brandy for putting this effort forward for s. B. 129. I will turn it to brandy.7:00 PMThank you, carolyn, thank you for that introduction. I'm honored to be part of your team. Danny is going to be a tough act to follow. I want to thank the vta board members tonight. I'm glad that e are here to talkabout, follow that very nice nbc piece because that's exactly why we are here. We are here for theemployees of vta to shine, and I don't really have to tell any of you after the May 26 tragedy, what kind of devastation that left in its wake. Ten families lives were shattered and nothing will replace that loss. While we are on a plan of recovery, we would like to thank you for your support for making that healing journey possible. So one of those such resources is spear headed by dave court cortese for vta work and healthservices and training and reasonable accommodations. Also with subsequent representation from each of our unions and management to reef and provide support on the proposed expenditures. This committee is comprised of the four labor unions here, the management groups that you also see here and we have beenworking together since early September to come up with a budget framework f the $20 million in funding allocation to bring to the vta board tonight. The committee was tasked with identifying a range of needs forvta employees and amilies mental health support, and propose a budget for the needs in which we are here to do this evening. This also dovetails into two inter related board referrals you see here and I will address a little bit later. I wanted everyone to know and see the timeline as we are working with the workforce development board who is responsible for administering this grant and the application is due October 15th. So we are working hard to get this in front of you and get some feedback so that board canexecutor approve our application in November to begin to execute that contract. The committee has identified six priority categories that are listed here on this slide along with the results if which they are aimed to achieve. The budget estimation that you see at the top ranges from $20 million to $26 million.Yes, I know that's over the $20 million you will see here why it's important to note that. This truly is a jointeffort. Each committee member has shown up twice a week to meet and they are here tonight to also present a category each and provide some level of detail on the estimated costs associated with it. Our first presenter is john, ata local 265. I hope he's on camera and ready to go.7:03 PMI am.Thank you. maybe john, at local 265. I want to thank the board for all of their support for putting this joint committee together and also making mental health a priority with what we've been through, it means a lot. I just wanted to say that, I also wanted to thank the county, santa clara county district attorney's office for all of their great work and the behind-the-scenes stuff. It's been great in their continued efforts. Let me jump into this. Our committee's task as to identify and cover all aspects and different levels of vta mental health needs. So, some of the services that we identified tha the bill wilson center. Center. They provide much needed individual one on one group counseling for employees and their families and training for their office and staff. Each year they have a renewal and it's a much needed thing for their workplace stress and also introducing them and getting them familiar if they need additional help. This has been a great thing so far and that's going to be continuing and the center does provide a 24 hour hotline if necessary too.Inpatient treatment. Approximately 7-10% of victims of similar tragedies need a greater level of care. Aninpatient treatment, we have 3 found that to be available for employees that need it. The next one was a resident licensed linical psychologist, Dr. Mccoy, and she has been meeting one on one with employees and also she has been doing different types of group trauma training. So she's going to be continuing that which is great. There is also a six contracted clinicians that are going to be supporting, because just ingeneral, the need is great and those clinicians are going to be supporting anybody that needs to reach out for those services. The last one is alternative providers. Not everyone needs a clerical therapist. We haveidentified proven different modalities for trauma and this is one that has been identified. I would like to thank the bill wilson center. They have been there since day one of this tragedy. With all the things that have gone on and with everybody reaching out needing help, I can't imagine going through his without their support. I can't say enough about bill wilson. So i'm excited about this one. We have had some meetings with the international firefighters association and look t their peer pa peer support program. This program is not to replace any professional health counselors. The basic scope of it is a peer to peer where they can provide a critical incident stress support and debriefing if there was n incident or if something happens to an operator, they can have some support. So the next step would be to provide that peer support and willing and also provide support to the program and bill wilson and the clinical psychologist and the clinician we hire. It's a way to get the support they need. I'm excited about this and I think it's overdue. Also, they are offering three mental health days. These mental health days is going through thedifferent stages of the tragedies and sometimes there is operators and they might have to step back for a day. They are getting help. This would be a way for them to step back, reset, get the help they need. It's something that will help support for the next year and with the anniversary coming forward. It will help prepare for that. On the memorials, we are going to have a committee to explore ways to honor and acknowledge the lives that we lost. So, I just am looking forward to it nd I want to thank everybody, thank he board. Next, we have steve7:10 PMGood evening, i'm steve, the local president. I would like to thank the board for all of your support and for the incident and making the workforce a priority here. So going along with that supporting our work environment with reasonable accommodations, the vta labor unions along with vta, we are committed tocontinuing to be sensitive and compassionate to all ta employees. With the goal of retaining all of our eployees, since May 26, we've realized there are some employees who haven't been able to return to work right away. There are some that haven't been able to return to their previous work locations and some that aren't even able to return to the job that they were doing due to the impacts from this incident. So, looking at the impacts how people have been impacted by this incident, the reasonable accommodation could be accomplished by reassigning, relocationing or retraining our employees into new classifications when needed. I think all of us need to be flexible and work outside of our normal means and processes inplace for outside of our normal reasonable accommodations, and existing paths and career ladders that we have and looking at those individuals on case by case basis scenario working with the unions and hr manager and evaluating what is the best fit for an individual when they face these situations. Some of these have been identified early on, some of these are going to be possibly identified at a later time, but this is all going to take additional resources and additional money. So, with that, we put the together this budget. This is really a bit of a short-term, but I think you will see some long-term effects in this category that we'll of to look at. Once someone has gone through the entire process of worker's comp and identify they can't return to what they used to do and ork t that location, identify what solutions are there or that person. I would like to thank the entire vta board of directors for your time and everyone have a greatevening.7:13 PMGood evening, board members. I join my colleagues in thanking you for all of your continuing support as we go through this and we work our way towards the future. In this category, it's our hope that the work we do here will have a profound and permanent impact on the future of the organization. So, here we've allocated money for all aspects of this work which will be on going or at least several years and which will have at least several phases. To continue working together as a management team, we will work and aimed at finding and partner as an expert in this field of development and the partner is going to guide usthrough this critical examination and while also providing some objects and critical areas to focus on. Anthat, -- after that, we will wor on the implementation on the part of our staff and his is going to take work and patience and it will last about three years. Thank you7:14 PMTammy, you are next. thank you, jay.Good evening, my name is tammy denota. Thank you, brandy. Preventative measures are critical for us tofeel safe in the workplace. Active shooter training was conducted for vta employees a couple years ago and could have been very well the reason for many lives that were not lost May 26. On-site training specific to each of the vta yards and departments with the common request made by employees during -- after the shooting. And this is necessary specified by senator cortese. The expectation is for the vta pilot to serve as a training model for other agencies to follow. They say an ounce of prevention is worth a pound of cure. S.B. 129 specifically calls out that funding can be used for facility improvements but only after working support and mental health of employees are prioritized. Any amount beyond $20 million would then beapplied to upgrading security access, emergency alarm and public announcement system at our four operating divisions and the administrator offices. Relocationing personnel and equipment from the guadalupe buildings where the shootings occurred was necessary to ensure a safe return for the workenvironment for employees. Vta has leased a new building to house rail systems station, maintenance, staff and other critical functions. This is in conclusion of what the committee is recommending for the s. B.129 funding. Like the rest of my colleagues, I would like to thank you very much for your time this evening. Thank you very much.7:16 PMThank you, tammy. I know she's doing this from her vehicle because her daughters are in a sporting event.I appreciate what you are doing to help with this presentation.7:17 PMEverything you heard here tonight is about support for vta families and the families of our fallen coworkers. The priorities tonight all point to the overarching goal of establishing a vta resiliency center and that continues through the amazing work of our partners and trauma. Unfortunately there are othermodels that access out there and that just goes to show there is a real need. The resiliency center will support the foundation and future of santa clara county for all during these type of situations, fires, so this has been for funding for 29 million and there is more font hardship funding and administered through the mtc to help with the cost of the May 26 tragedy. Lastly, vta has the opportunity to make many more structural changes which have been identified n a referral by the vta board last month in september. And in the continued spirit of the management working together with this goal t committee has conducted an rfpto conduct an educational wide culture and transformarse -- transformation and the timeline concludes with an award for January 2022. I have the wrong year. It's next year, early. That concludes our report and we are here o take any questions from the public or the board.7:19 PMI just want to thank brandy, john, tammy, steve and jay for presenting and I know rog from tae was part of this as well. I want to thank them for all of their work and the support of the members of the variousunions and others, the staff that actually supported being able to put this lan together. So, like brandy said we are author take comments and get some input so we are able to finalize at least an application to go to the state in mid-october.Carolyn, do you want to finish 8. 1b and then we'll get to comments from the board.7:20 PMSure. that was very quick. the other item was on the governor's update and that report was provided to the board members included in the online agenda packet. Before I conclude, I want to let you know that the requiiders safety and security is included in the online packet and that concludes my 8. 1. A.Member montano, did you have something else to say?I forget to lower my hand.7:21 PMOkay. I would like to say, we always receive report, but to me, this is a report for our employees. I hope that our employee base is able to watch the video and what's going on here so they can get a sense of how this s. B. 129 money is being done. I just got the report and I appreciate the interaction between our laborpartners and the management team for how we are doing this, but to me this is a report to our employees.This money is about what's being done for the employees and this is a step n a way to help them get informed and they can start commenting back to their union leadership and heir management team andwhat their thoughts are what they just heard. I appreciate what you have done for them. I'm going to public comments now first and I don't know if it's theodorea or elaine. If you can let our public speakers in.7:22 PMYes, first it's eugene. you May begin speaking when you are ready. Public speaker: good evening, board, this is eugene bradley. Congratulations on your appointment to be the chief of staff, I know you will do pretty well on that role. Anyway, I also want to note to thank vta for helping the employees after the horror of 5/26, that will unfortunately live in me forever in silicon valley. And for the second question,gilroy, I was wondering what time that ribbon cutting will be in gilroy, on the 14?7:23 PMI believe it's 10:00 a.m. yes.Next speaker, please. roland, you May begin speaking when you are ready. Public speaker: thank you, first of all, kudos to danny for his beautiful artwork. I hope he won't have to travel from san francisco and will be able to do it right here in downtown. Also congratulations to brandy, it couldn't have happened to abetter person. Moving on to the general manager's report. The miami tunnels are 41 feet in diameter each.If this is the same firm that we are talking about, this is actually one of the tbm's, the largest in the world in hong kong. I'm very aware of it. It's 2,000 feet and two smaller side by side. That's all I have got time for. Thank you.7:24 PM3Next speaker, please. you May begin speaking when you are ready.Good evening, everybody, this is john courtney, atu, local 265. I want to say thank you to the board for allowing me to speak and hope we can continue to have these open forums and you don't limit our speech.I want to thank caroline for a couple of things to highlight johnny's report is exactly what we are talking about. She didn't need any okays or anything to get that going. That's what it's about, caroline, thank you.In that spirit, I want to say thank you to cindy and dave and for all for getting us this money. I have just 29 seconds.7:25 PMJohn, if you need an extra 30 seconds to finish your comment, go ahead.Thank you for that. I want to say, along this path, as we come out of and we go into our future, this is a great example of the way it can be done. Carolyn has been supportive and been throwing up a lot of greenlights and okaying some things to make this happen. My guy, john, I can only speak for the atu and john with brandy, they have put their nose to the grind stone and got things done. I feel the passion in thespeakers tonight and I know the board is oing to embrace this idea of helping the members and the employees of vta going forward. This is truly a cooperative that I said it many times in the beginning, we didn't have a playbook. We are writing the playbook as we peak and I couldn't be happier with this group and how it's leading. Thank you all and thank you to vta for allowing this and our members are seeing this, thank you.7:26 PMThank you, john.Blair, you May begin speaking when you are ready.Hi, thank you, blair beakman here, thanks for this item. Yeah, these new counseling programs sound reallyinteresting. I know san jose is working on some of the same things with workplace counseling issues.Items, is a better way to say it. It's a way to connect with domestic violence issues in san jose and other problems in san jose that address issues that we have been trying to address for a long time. That's a hopeful sign that can maybe be of interest to people beside the gun issues. People get tired of the gun issues and what we can do. Maybe these workplace counseling issues can really begin to work on issuesand solve problems. Thanks.7:27 PMYou May begin speaking when you are ready.Thank you, all. my name is sue -- working on stress management and would like to comment on item 8.1a. In addition to respond to go trauma in the community, we also train other agencies and firstresponders on critical incident stress. I have had the privilege and opportunity to be working with vta for several months now. I also responded and supported the community after the gilroy shooting as well as after several other homicides and other workplace violence. The support that's proposed to support vta employees and families is so important, not just for a critical incident, but also he daily occupational stress that operators and others face with these crisis. And the community is really riding on the vta's mental health and it's so important to promote and provide support to all.7:28 PMDo you need a few more seconds, go ahead and finish your thoughts.Thanks so much, glen. I appreciate that. As john sid, the community is really riding on vta's communitymental health and it's important to invest in on going resources to support vta's employees and families.As I said, we responded to other incidents in the past and I know that it's not just a few months and oneyear. It's an on going response. So it's contract ill to build in the support such as the resiliency center and the other mental health support that john and others spoke about tonight. Thank you so much.7:29 PMSue, on behalf of the board, I just want to thank you and everyone else and the team at the bill wilson center for everything you are doing for our team and our family and for the rest of our community. Thankyou.I'm not seeing any other public speakers hands up. So i'm going to come back around to my colleagues.Before I go to my colleagues, I want to go ahead and say, caroline, a lot of really good stuff in your reporthere. Let's not lose sight of the work that danny is doing, and I also think it's really important to thank senator dave cortese and other senators and people in sacramento that voted for this for vta. We really appreciate all the support and official we all know dave is a good local person here and spent a lot of time here on the vta board. I'm going to my colleagues and start with member chavez.7:30 PMThank you and congratulations to brandy in here new role. I really appreciate seeing you there. I would like to speak to two big isues, appreciate seeing management and atu presenting these items together.That's a big step forward. And I would like to acknowledge and she's not here, margaret abe coga because it's been a challenge to get resources here and margaret has been a big strong support of board membersand would like to thank our cso for working with mt. C and one of the resources and I would like to say that to my colleagues. The only other thing is I do want to acknowledge something that john courtney said and actually that chair, that you said as well, which is that this presentation is really for our team, our staff, so that they know that we are moving in a direction that's going to make this a great workplace, a safe workplace, a safe where people really want to be, and also allow us through those really great employees, provide excellent service for the community. And I think both you and john you hit the nail on the head with this description. I will look forward to more details. I appreciate that even where you go the today took a lot of hours and to all the union and steve and tammy and i'm sure the atu and all that were involved.7:32 PMThank you. member constantine?7:33 PMThank you, chair. . I will just say ditto to what member chavez said and what the members of the county and the union. It really takes a team and this is a team effort and I am so pleased and happy that we are working in a direction that we can work together and not work apart. An incident such as what happened on May 26 can really tear apart and entity. And couple that with a pandemic and a cyber hit and put thataltogether on your plate. So again, it's going to be a long road, but it's going to be one that we are going to take together. I appreciate all the work that is going through this and I look forward to hearing more about it later on. Thank you very much, chair.Thank you. member peralez?Thank you, just echoing the appreciation here and really happy that we got this funding and thank you to member chavez and senator cortese and obviously now being able to put this to good use at the best thg that we can do and the direction moving forward and what we'll be able to work with our unions and this is a great step. John courtney said it right. We didn't have a playbook for this, and I think unfortunately that's expected, but we do now and we are building one now, more importantly, I think, building up how we can ensure a safe workplace and a workplace where people feel safe, where they know that they have the support necessary regardless of this type of tragedy or just your daily day-to-day workplacen counters, interactions, knowing that we'll be there to create that environment that is much more safe. I know that we've had employees feel more empowered to speak up over the course of the summer after this because I think hey feel as though they are going to be heard and we want to make sure we can hear them and want to make sure they have the right mechanisms and support in place to be able to provide a proper response for it. I'm appreciative of all the work that has gone into this. Thank you, carolyn, for stepping in.As pointed out with a number of just presuunprecedented incidents like this, our workforce needs this type of support. Thank you, chair. For pointing this out. Hopefully it will make it out to the workforce and we'll see looking back at the presentation here and understand that e are serious about the work putting in. I thank everybody for your collaboration on this.7:36 PMThank you. member liccardo?Thank you, I just want to join the chorus and for providing the leadership for really stepping in and working collaboratively with management. Thank you, brandy for stepping up and thank you director chavez and senator cortese for securing the funds and the team. This is a really hopeful sign and I lookforward to seeing the progress.Chair hendricks.. thank you. i'm not seeing anybody else hands up. So on this very positive note, i'm going to go ahead and close out carolyn, your section. Thanks very much or the really good stuff that's going on nd being able to highlight to all of us that good work. So, thank you.7:37 PMThank you. next i'm going to move to item 8. 2.Thank you for all of your support. I'm going to move on to 8. 2 our chairperson's report. I would like to thank austin and robert daniel for getting our light rail back on track and thank the organization for getting the service back and working through this horrific tragedy. To our bus operating team, thank you for moving us forward when this plan was suspended and for being so nimble and thank you to all the staff for the hard work and dedication and resilience. It's been difficult, but you leaned on each moving forward.Last but not least, I want to say thank you to our passengers in our community for your support and patience and understanding as we recover from this tragedy that this organization and families have faced.Gradually we are getting better and I hope that we will move forward especially after this pandemic.Earlier, you heard a report about our service restoration and in addition to that good news, we are starting to see positive trends in our verall ridership and to support this ridership, we are increasing our efforts for hiring new bus operators. I would like to encourage this bus operator recruiting. I couldn't think of a better recruiting video than the comments by danny talking about how much he loved being a bus operator.Changing the subject so slightly, we will conduct the biennial board process to help the committee evaluate and identify how we can make improvements as a board. The board office staff has contacted many of you to schedule a 30 minute conversation to discuss this independent consultant, and that independent consultant will ask you 13 questions. I urge you to participate and provide your candid responses to thequestions. Your participation is the only way this process will be effective. That's the end of my commends and let's see if there is any public comment to my report. I see we've got some hands. Staff, would you let them in.7:40 PMRoland, you May begin speaking when you are ready.Thank you, Mr. Chair, I really appreciated your report and your comments. The reason why i'm addressing you, I want everybody on this vote to remember that the people who drive, operate our light rail and buses, they actually are there to protect the general public from harm, that they are there to be supporting the people who ride this system. That's what I want to say to those riders of these autonomous vehicles.Thank you.Thank you.7:41 PMNext speaker, please.Blair, you May begin speaking when you are ready. .Hi, blair beakman here. thanks for the meeting tonight. I didn't quite hear correctly, but for item 8. 1b, I didn't notice any sort of government package description of things. To note. To also offer a good luck inyour recruiting needs and what can happen with that. I liked the video tonight. It was helpful for myself,actually. Don't be afraid to promote what I think the counseling services that you can learn to provide can actually be kind of a future good role model of how local working places can practice ideas. Good luck withthose efforts.7:42 PMThank you. that's all the public speakers hands that I see. I will now come back to my colleagues. Do they have any thoughts or comments on my report? okay. I'm going to close that. I'm going to move to item 8.3. Are there any items of concern or referral to the administration from my colleagues? I'm not seeing any.Are there any announcements from my colleagues. Again, i'm not seeing anything. That's going to take us to item 9. As a reminder, items 91a and -- have been we moved from the agenda. We will only discussitems 9. 1e through g. Are there any comments about the closed session? I'm not seeing none. We need our board members to come back to close out the meeting. With that, we are going to go ahead and recess to closed session. I will see all of my